Hello and welcome back to the course and Tablo.
And in today's tutorial we will download and connect to the data there will be working within this section
and we will also learn how to do a join in Tablo.
So very interesting to troll ahead let's get straight to it.
First of all we'll need a browser.
And as usual we will go to super size dot com slash Tablo.
And here if you scroll down to Section 4 you will see maps and scatterplot And let's just download this
file which is amazing Mark.
You so I'm going to save that file to my Tablo folder now.
And once the file is saved.
I can open up the folder here you see the file and let's open it up and have a look what's inside.
So there is my file and I'll just zoom in a little bit so we can see a bit better what's going on.
And here you can see first thing that pops into our attention is that there's three tabs list of orders
order breakdown and self-starters.
So right now we're looking at the very first step.
What is it showing us.
Well this tab is showing us a list of orders so these orders this column the values in this column are
unique and every single order it has its details here on the right.
So when the order was placed who the customer is a customer is what's the name of the customer place
to order which region of Europe the order was placed in which country in this region which state in
the country which city in the state and it also has information on whether this customer is shopping
as a consumer or a corporate customer or home or for a home office it's got the shipping date and the
shipping mode.
So basically every single order is described here in detail and every single order is only featured
once in this tab and that's an important observation.
Now if we move onto the second tab we will see order breakdown.
So this tab is different now.
Here we can see that some orders are duplicated for instance these two orders are duplicated.
So it's the same order but it's shown twice.
Well why is that.
And that is because the customer that placed this order actually ordered several items he ordered Boston
markers and Eldin folders.
And then for each item there is a discount the value that was discounted off the order the sales the
profit flow for that specific item the quantity and what category it falls under or whether it's office
supplies furniture or technology and the subcategory.
So here we can see that every single order is broken down it is itemized into what exactly constitutes
that order.
So we don't we no longer have information on where when the order was placed we as was shipped in to.
But we know what was inside this order.
And so if we go back to the first tab here we will see that in total at the bottom so if I just highlight
the score column you'll see here that there is a count of 4000 118 cells.
So basically because the first cell is the hitter is 4000 117 orders and in order breakdown as we can
expect there's more cells.
There's actually eight thousand and forty eight cells so that means eight thousand forty seven items
in total.
We're well constituted these orders that were made.
And so that's important to remember that in this tab order ID is unique in this Tab Order ID is not
unique anymore.
And finally there's another tab called sales targets.
Now in this section of the course you won't focus on the sales targets tab.
We'll talk about it in the next section.
So let's leave it for now.
What we will need in our data is we will need to somehow join these two towers because for us it's not
sufficient to only know where the order went and when it was made and what kind of and who the customer
is.
We also need to know what constituted that specific order.
So the information from this step.
And likewise it's not enough for us to know just what constituted an order because we also need to know
who the customer was where it went and when it was placed.
So inevitably we're going to have to work with both these tabs and we need to find a way to combine
them or join them.
So let's see how we can do that and tabel.
I'm just going to close this Excel file for now and on each side of changes and what we're going to
do is we're going to help open up a Tablo.
And we will connect to this data source.
So we're going to connect to an excel file and here we've got the amazing.
You open it up and here right away we can see something different to what we're normally used to on
the left.
There's actually three sub items that we can choose from.
And these are the tabs that we just looked at list of orders order breakdown and sales targets.
So let's have a look at list of orders if we drag it into here as we normally do.
We will have a preview of the tab that is list of orders which is fair enough.
Now let's close that and drag order breakdown into this section.
Now we have a preview of the order breakdown tab the same thing as we saw just now.
So now what are we going to do how are we going to connect them.
Well tabel has a very convenient functionality that allows you to join these two files and that's exactly
what we're going to be doing.
We're going to be joining these two tabs.
So let's first do it and then we'll discuss what we did.
First we're going to take a list of orders and we'll drag it into this part of the data connection manager.
And now we're going to take order break down and we'll also drag it in there but we'll put it to the
right of list of orders.
And once you let go you will see automatically that table has come up with some sort of.
I can hear which is signaling to us that these two file two tabs are now connected and if we look at
the preview there is many more homes now.
So these columns here come from the first file that come from list of orders and then these columns
and they're right here.
They come from the second file.
They come from the order breakdown and if you click on this connection over here you will see what Tablo
did Tablo did an inner join.
So now if you're not familiar with the term inner join Don't worry because in the next section of the
course we will talk in detail about inner joins left joins right joins full outer joins.
And so on because it is quite an important topic in Tablo and connecting 2.0.
But for now we'll will just try to understand what exactly did Tablo do based on this description or
here you can kind of guess that Tablo looked at order the order ID field in this tab and then it looks
at the Order ID field in this tab and it matched the two tabs based on this field.
So basically what that means is for whenever there was an order ID of X table looks for the same order
ID in this file and attached it to the rows in this file so now that we know that the call the Order
ID field in the first tab is unique and it's not unique in the second.
What that means is that for every order ID in the first tab there were they might have been several
order IDs in the second tab.
Well in that case what happens is Tablo will duplicate the rows from the first tab.
So let's have a look an example of that if you scroll down here to the very bottom.
I notice there's a few here so as you can see here these rows are duplicated so you can see and all
the information in these columns is identical so Tablo did duplicate these rows and then connect them
to the Associated rows in the second tab and here the rest of the information is unique of course because
these are different items in that second full second tab.
So what we did basically is we've created a new structure and new table based on those two daughters
sources and going forward from here tabel we'll be working with this table rather than with either of
these.
And that is a very very powerful feature that means that we've actually modified the daughter that Tabeau
will be working.
Not that we've changed the data.
We've modified the structure.
It's no longer two separate tables it's one table that has been joined and two acknowledges here we'll
just change the name from list of orders to plus order breakdown.
So if we click just click anywhere here.
Now the connection has been created and if we go to shoot one you'll see our connection here and now
also you can see that Tablo has gone to all the comb's as was featured in the dotter connection but
it's also separated them here to show you which file they are coming from whether it's kind of from
the list of orders or from the order breakdown file.
So that is how we join in Tablo and once again don't worry if you're not entirely sure or comfortable
What would we just did.
Because they'll be a whole section on this stuff very soon in the course.
So just follow along with what we did today and we'll get along with the Tablo part of the course so
the visualization part in the section and then we will recap again on joining enjoins our joins and
so on and even We'll talk about blending in the next section of the course.
So hope you enjoyed this tutorial and I'll look for you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.